TITLE: Design Document for Samoa Configuration Interface


OVERVIEW

This document describes the user interface for an active configuration tool
for the "Samoa" application. 

USE SCENARIO

Users who need to execute configuration changes in Samoa will visit a URL 
referencing a webpage residing on the Samoa server. They will be asked to 
authenticate by entering a username and password. 

After an appropriate username and password is provided, the user will be able 
to review the existing configuration of Samoa, as well as determine summary
data regarding the current status of running applications, providers, and 
sessions within Samoa. This main webpage will present only overview statistics 
and categories of application settings; users will need to "drill-down" into 
specific areas to make changes.

The system will dynamically generate individual webpages using the namespace
provided by the Management API. Thus, if modules are modified or renamed, or if
new modules are created, the interface will adapt accordingly. (Also, this design
permits easy reuse of this code for other management interfaces elsewhere in
the Metreos offerings.)

WEB PAGE COMPONENTS


default.aspx - This is the main entry page that all users will visit initially.
It contains three controls: textboxes for username and password and a button to
submit these values.

main.aspx - The main window provides user login information and a general description
of the use of the configuration tool. Statistical data regarding providers, 
applications and sessions is shown (via a transparent inclusion of samoastats.aspx) 
here as well. 

A middle section on the page offers list of available providers and their status.
Options to install, disable, enable or reload providers are displayed here. A
similar section for applications, with an almost identical layout, is shown 
immediately below. Both sections include the option to install new providers and
applications, however, this feature will not be included initially.

Finally, links to subpages offer access to configuration settings. Note: This page
may require significant explanatory and help text to be usable.

samoastats.aspx - This component of the system collates all Samoa summary 
statistics and displays them in an easy-to-read format. This page is seperated 
from the rest of the system so that this data can be easily published to other
reporting mechanisms. It might be useful to be able to review the status of Samoa
in other contexts and this will ease that process by allowing us to ship that data
or have it readily available accordingly. 

confirmproviderchange.aspx - This is a warning page presented any time a user
attempts to make a change to the status of a provider. It explains the results 
of this action and requires the user to explicitly confirm or cancel their action.

confirmapplicationchange.aspx - This is a warning page presented any time a user
attempts to make a change to the status of a provider. It explains the results 
of this action and requires the user to explicitly confirm or cancel their action.

configdisplay.aspx - This page REQUIRES an input parameter of the namespace 
description (eg: "Samoa.Ed") and displays the configuration settings provided by 
the Samoa API accordingly. Each setting is displayed using an appropriate control,
either a sized textbox (for strings) or a dropdown (for short integer ranges). 
As new types are determined and specified in the API, minimal changes need to be
made to configdisplay.aspx to accomidate these changes. Lastly, a button marked
"Review Proposed Changes" allows the user to advance past this screen after they
have made some changes.

reviewproposedchanges.aspx - This page may ONLY be called by submitting changes on 
configdisplay.aspx. Once active, the page displays a subset of the 
configuration settings provided by the Samoa API, specifically those changed 
by the user in the previous screen. The settings are still displayed using
controls, so the user can enter any last minute changes. 

reviewcommittedchanges.aspx - This final page appears almost identical to 
reviewproposedchanges.aspx, except that instead of an input control for each 
of the fields, a short report indiciates the status of the change, and the
most recent value of the variable. 

INPUT VALIDATION AND VERIFICATION

Web applications which depend heavily on user data input require strong
input validation to ensure that only appropriate data is recorded, and that
the user fully understand the valid ranges of values. This interface informs
users of the appropriate type of data by displaying a sensible control, 
visibly listing the range of values adjacent each entry box, and providing 
direct feedback when proposed changes fail.

SECURITY AND AUTHENTICATION

ASPX Sessions, an object provided by the ASP.NET framework, will be used to
track active users and maintain state as users move throughout the configuration
system. These sessions depend on the use of cookies to individually identify a
user's machine.

Passwords will be initially sent in plaintext, with room in future versions 
for methods of securing this data while in transport. Automatic security can
be established by simply moving the entire application to an https secure 
server.

POTENTIAL ISSUES

It is identified that multiple users on the configuration interface simulatenously
could be viewing and modifying inaccurate data. For example, if Bob and Mary both
load the configuration A=1, B=2 and C=3, and Bob changes B=25 while Mary changes 
C=300, whoever submits their changes later will override the values of the other 
user.

While not planned in implementation for the first version, the design of multiple
confirmation steps permits functionality to see if data "is dirty" to be easily 
added. Future versions should implement some sort of system to combat these
race conditions and improve overall usability.

